Contactar
guslez_it@hotmail.com
                                       Gustavo Lezama González
                                       PMO | PMP® | SDM | ITIL® | ITSM | AGILE | KANBAN | SCRUM |
www.linkedin.com/in/glezama-           León, Guanajuato, México
digitaltransformation-itdirector-pmo
(LinkedIn)
                                       Extracto
Aptitudes principales                  Provide Technical and management expertise with a career of 15+
Project strategy                       years, spanning IT service delivery trough of IT Service Management
Mejoras estratégicas                   focus on project management, infrastructure management,
Facilidad de adaptación                communications, ERP implementation and administration,
                                       application development and service desk.
Languages
Español (Native or Bilingual)          Professional highlights:
English (Full Professional)
                                       • Highly effective Leader of IT projects, with experience in the
Certifications                         implementation of complex technological projects, Management
ITIL Partitioner Operational Support   based on the PMI methodology, complemented with the use of
and Analysis
                                       framework as waterfall, critical chain to focus on restrictive tasks and
ITIL Intermediate Service Offerings
and Agreements                         Agile frameworks as a flexible and integral strategies for product
Introducción a Six sigma               development, to guarantee transparency in communication and
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure 2023 AI    create an environment of collective responsibility and continuous
Certified Foundations Associate        progress, generating credibility and results for the stakeholders.
Certificado Lean Six Sigma
                                       • Combine technical and management expertise with strong
                                       business acumen and operational understanding to face complex
                                       scenarios in any type of industry(automotive, energy, financial
                                       and consultant services); ensure all technical strategies, business
                                       process operations, continuous process improvement and IT
                                       services initiatives that increased efficiencies, reduced expenses,
                                       and increased customer and associate satisfaction. Background
                                       experience in Oracle Cloud infrastructure, CX Sales Cloud,
                                       development systems, Oracle Data Management, Oracle Middleware
                                       integration and implementation, IT infrastructure projects and ERP
                                       implementation & upgrades projects and telecommunications and
                                       networking projects.



                                       Experiencia
                                       Sinergy Solutions

                                                                      Page 1 of 2
8 años 2 meses

Project Management Officer
mayo de 2019 - Present (5 años 10 meses)
México

Subdirección de la oficina de proyectos y entrega de servicios

IT Service Delivery and Project Manager
enero de 2017 - Present (8 años 2 meses)
León y alrededores, México


Mazda de México Vehicle Operation
IT Deskside Support Coordinator
agosto de 2016 - enero de 2017 (6 meses)
Salamanca, Guanajuato, México


National Oilwell Varco
IT Manager Mexico
marzo de 2006 - agosto de 2016 (10 años 6 meses)
• Ensure the IT Service Management for Mexico Offices.
• Coordination and Management of the Service Desk Mexico working group
• Responsible for Asset management + 1,000 and mass Replacements,
Migration and Installation.
• Administrator of ERP, Human Resources, Electronic Invoice System.
• Database Administrator for SQL Server.
• Administration and Management of Windows Server 2008/2012 for servers.
• Incident Management using BMC Remedy.
• Management and Supervision of IT Infrastructure and System
Implementation projects.




Educación
Instituto Tecnologico de Veracruz
Ingenieria, Sistemas Computacionales · (2001 - 2006)




                                  Page 2 of 2
