

Alfonso Maldonado Sibaja
IT Project Manager | MES Expert | PSI Metals Expert
Euclid, Ohio, United States


Extracto

Accomplished IT Project Manager with over 12 years of
specialized experience in leading the end-to-end implementation of
Manufacturing Execution Systems (MES), particularly PSI Metals,
within the steel pipe manufacturing sector across the USA, Canada
and Mexico. Managing the complete project lifecycle, including
scope definition, planning, budget, design, execution, go-live and
post-implementation support. Experience coordinating cross-
functional teams and engaging stakeholders to achieve projects
on time and within budget. Brings robust functional and technical
expertise to drive operational enhancements and ensure the
execution of projects.


Summary
• 24+ years of experience in the Steel Manufacturing Industry.
• 12+ years of experience in MES Implementation (PSI Metals
Expertise).
• Definition of MES solution that has been deployed at 7
manufacturing plants at USA and Canada.
• Project Management Lifecycle (Agile and Waterfall methodologies).
• Leadership, mentoring and development of cross-functional teams.
• Change Management.
• Stakeholder Engagement and Communication.
• Impact Analysis.
• Budget Management and Cost Control.
• Process Improvement.
• Very good experience of Product Feasibility, and Order Dressing.
• Extensive experience in Order Management, Material
Management, Yard Management, Production Planning, Plant floor
Execution.
• Extensive experience defining and implementing integration models
with Automation systems.
• Extensive experience in Quality Management.
• Extensive experience of MES integration with SAP, Production
Planning and Management control systems.
                             Page 1 of 5
Functional and Technical Skills:
• PSI Metals
• Scrum foundation
• PL/SQL Dev
• Oracle
• SOAP UI
• Power BI
• Azure Devops
• JIRA
• Solman – Solution Manager
• USD – Service desk manager
• MS Teams, Office, Visio, MS Project
• Natural Adabas



Experiencia

Lincoln Electric
Manufacturing Execution System Service Owner
octubre de 2024 - Present (5 meses)
Cleveland, Ohio, United States


Tenaris
Tenaris Koppel - IT Project Manager
mayo de 2023 - junio de 2024 (1 año 2 meses)
United States

Serving as an IT Project Manager for a global leading steel pipe
manufacturer, I was responsible for complex and high-profile MES (PSI
Metals) implementation across two manufacturing sites: Tenaris Koppel in
Pennsylvania and Tenaris Brookfield in Ohio. This strategic initiative promoted
logistical integration with Tenaris Ambridge in Pennsylvania and unified these
three manufacturing plants within a single MES instance. This project achieved
operational synergy and enhanced collaborative efficiency across the north
USA facilities.


Responsibilities
• Managed the full project lifecycle including designing, planning, specification,
tracking, testing, training, Go-Live, post-implementation support, and project
completion.
• Assessment to identify the gaps to cover all operative scenarios.
                                    Page 2 of 5
• Defined the business scenarios, based on physical production lines layout
and material flows.
• Coordinated and developed the cross-functional project team.
• Defined the integration model for Heat Treatment and Finishing production
lines with Automation team.
• Coordinated and led the workshops and meetings to validate solution of each
gap with stakeholders.
• Worked collaboratively with multiple functional teams, such as Automation,
SAP, Production Planning, and Management control.
• Defined the deliverables for each sprint with the Development team.
• Led on all day-to-day task execution.
• Developed and implemented project metrics and managed progress
reporting.
• Provided regular project updates to stakeholders.
• Impact analysis by job position to identify the most impacted users to define
strategies to simplify system adoption.
• Purchase requisition of required devices such as thin clients, thermal printers,
scanners, etc.
• Orchestrated comprehensive training programs for over 168 end-users,
significantly enhancing system adoption.
• Elaborated the Go-Live strategy and validated with stakeholders
• Lead the cross-functional teams for Go-Live, and Post-Implementation on-
site


TenarisTamsa
23 años 11 meses

IT Project Manager
enero de 2022 - mayo de 2023 (1 año 5 meses)
Working as an IT Project Manager for a globally steel pipe manufacturer, I
led the coordination of a cross-functional team to implement the MES (PSI
Metals).


Responsibilities
Led and development the functional team to implement MES on different
Tenaris plants in USA and Canada.
Coordinated the workshops and meetings to validate specifications and define
priorities with stakeholders.



2021 - 2022, Implementation of MES at Tenaris Algoma, Ontario, Canada,
covering the Bars Cutting, Hot Rolling Mill, Heat Treatment, Finishing,
Premium Threading production lines.

IT Project Leader
diciembre de 2011 - diciembre de 2021 (10 años 1 mes)
Working as an IT Project Leader for a globally steel pipe manufacturer,
I defined the MES that has been extended to the north America region,
the model was defined in collaboration with a group of MES experts from
different countries, I led and developed the cross-functional team in charge to
implement MES (PSI Metals) on different locations in North America, I was the
mentor of the support team in charge to support operations of Tenaris plants in
USA and Canada, and attend evolutive and corrective changes.


2021, Implementation of MES (using PSI Metals) at Tenaris's Ambridge facility
in Pennsylvania, focusing on the Hot Rolling Mill production line. The project
involved a deep analysis of production workflows, customization of MES
software to fit unique operational needs, and a targeted approach to enhance
process efficiency and data integrity.


2021, Implementation of MES (using PSI Metals) at Tenaris's Koppel facility in
Pennsylvania, covering the Steel shop, and Bars Cutting production lines.


2018, Implementation of MES (using PSI Metals) at Tenaris's Conroe facility
in Texas, covering the Heat Treatment, Finishing, and Threading production
lines.


2016 - 2018, Implementation of MES (using PSI Metals) at Tenaris's Bay City
facility in Texas, covering the Bars Cutting, Hot Rolling Mill, Heat Treatment,
and Finishing production lines.


2012 - 2014, Designed of the Manufacturing Execution System (MES) using
PSI Metals for Tenaris's US manufacturing plants, and the implementation of
MES at Tenaris's Conroe facility in Texas, covering the Slitter, Welder, Heat
Treatment, and Finishing production lines. This model had been extended and
implemented across 7 Tenaris plants located at USA and Canada.

IT Application Responsable
abril de 2005 - noviembre de 2011 (6 años 8 meses)
Responsibilities
Led and development the functional and development teams
                                   Page 4 of 5
2010 - Implementation of MES at Tenaris Tamsa, Veracruz, México, covering
the Bars Cutting, Hot Rolling Mill, Heat Treatment, and Finishing production
lines.


2008 - Implementation of MES at Tenaris Tamsa, Veracruz, México, covering
the Premium Threading production lines.


Support plant operations, implementation of evolutive and corrective changes
to different business process and manufacturing plants at Tenaris Tamsa.

IT Analyst & Developer
julio de 1999 - marzo de 2005 (5 años 9 meses)
Resposibilities
Analysis, Development, Testing and Implementation of evolutive, and
corrective changes on MES to different business process such as Supply
chain, Product feasibility, Order Management, Production planning, and Plant
floor execution.




Educación

Universidad Cristóbal Colón, Veracruz, Mexico
Master's degree, Information Technology · (2005 - 2007)


Instituto Tecnologico de Veracruz, Veracruz, Mexico
Bachelor's degree, Computer Engineering · (1994 - 1999)



 
 
 
Contactar

alfmalsib@gmail.com
                               
                               
www.linkedin.com/in/alfonso-   
maldonado-s (LinkedIn)

                               
Aptitudes principales

Planeamiento de proyectos      
Análisis de negocio            
Gestión de proyectos           
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               


                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               