

Gustavo Lezama González
PMO | PMP® | SDM | ITIL® | ITSM | AGILE | KANBAN | SCRUM |
León, Guanajuato, México


Extracto

Provide Technical and management expertise with a career of 15+
years, spanning IT service delivery trough of IT Service Management
focus on project management, infrastructure management,
communications, ERP implementation and administration,
application development and service desk.

Professional highlights:

• Highly effective Leader of IT projects, with experience in the
implementation of complex technological projects, Management
based on the PMI methodology, complemented with the use of

framework as waterfall, critical chain to focus on restrictive tasks and

Agile frameworks as a flexible and integral strategies for product
development, to guarantee transparency in communication and
create an environment of collective responsibility and continuous
progress, generating credibility and results for the stakeholders.

• Combine technical and management expertise with strong
business acumen and operational understanding to face complex
scenarios in any type of industry(automotive, energy, financial
and consultant services); ensure all technical strategies, business
process operations, continuous process improvement and IT
services initiatives that increased efficiencies, reduced expenses,
and increased customer and associate satisfaction. Background
experience in Oracle Cloud infrastructure, CX Sales Cloud,
development systems, Oracle Data Management, Oracle Middleware
integration and implementation, IT infrastructure projects and ERP
implementation & upgrades projects and telecommunications and
networking projects.



Experiencia

Sinergy Solutions
8 años 2 meses

Project Management Officer
mayo de 2019 - Present (5 años 10 meses)
México

Subdirección de la oficina de proyectos y entrega de servicios

IT Service Delivery and Project Manager
enero de 2017 - Present (8 años 2 meses)
León y alrededores, México


Mazda de México Vehicle Operation
IT Deskside Support Coordinator
agosto de 2016 - enero de 2017 (6 meses)
Salamanca, Guanajuato, México


National Oilwell Varco
IT Manager Mexico
marzo de 2006 - agosto de 2016 (10 años 6 meses)
• Ensure the IT Service Management for Mexico Offices.
• Coordination and Management of the Service Desk Mexico working group
• Responsible for Asset management + 1,000 and mass Replacements,
Migration and Installation.
• Administrator of ERP, Human Resources, Electronic Invoice System.
• Database Administrator for SQL Server.
• Administration and Management of Windows Server 2008/2012 for servers.
• Incident Management using BMC Remedy.
• Management and Supervision of IT Infrastructure and System
Implementation projects.




Educación

Instituto Tecnologico de Veracruz
Ingenieria, Sistemas Computacionales · (2001 - 2006)



 
 
 
Contactar

guslez_it@hotmail.com
                                       
                                       
www.linkedin.com/in/glezama-           
digitaltransformation-itdirector-pmo
(LinkedIn)
                                       
Aptitudes principales                  

Project strategy                       
Mejoras estratégicas                   
Facilidad de adaptación                
                                       
Languages

Español (Native or Bilingual)          
English (Full Professional)
                                       
Certifications                         

ITIL Partitioner Operational Support   
and Analysis
                                       
ITIL Intermediate Service Offerings
and Agreements                         
Introducción a Six sigma               
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure 2023 AI    
Certified Foundations Associate        
Certificado Lean Six Sigma
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       



                                       
                                       

                                       